One of the things that I see so many
people inflicted by that causes so much
pain is the chase for approval. Trying
to get people to say, "Okay, you're good
enough." And what I notice about those
people or [music] when all of us are
doing that, what we're doing is we're
not actually letting the compliments in.
We're not actually accepting the
approval [music]
that we're getting.
As a matter of fact, what most of us do
is we push that away. We push that
appreciation. We push those compliments
and we just say, "No, no, no, that can't
be true." And you do it maybe like a ton
of different ways. Maybe one way you do
it is, "Oh, no, the dress isn't that
nice." Or maybe another way that you do
it is you just go, "Uh-huh. Yeah." But
in your mind, you're like, "Oh, they
don't really know me."
Or maybe you're just like very direct
with it and you're like, "Oh, that
person's just trying to sell me
something or they want something from
me." So, there's a thousand ways where
we don't let the compliment in. And even
if we do let it in, maybe we only let it
in a little bit. We don't actually allow
it to move all the way through us and
really digest it, really appreciate it.
Go, "Oh, wow. That feels really good."
Allow ourselves to feel really good
inside of the compliment. And because of
that, we're not actually ever digesting
the compliment. And so, we're constantly
hungry for it. We're constantly looking
for the approval, but then we get it. We
call the person basically essentially a
liar. We're like, "Yeah, no, no, you
don't understand. You don't know." So,
either ignorant or a liar. And then we
wonder why we're not getting
appreciation, why we're not getting the
compliments. Can you imagine? You give
somebody a compliment. As a matter of
fact, I don't think you have to imagine.
You give somebody a compliment and
they're like, "No."
Like, how much do you want to give them
a compliment again? How much are you
like, "Oh, yeah, that's cool. Let me do
that every day where that person tells
me I don't know what I'm talking about
and I don't know them." somehow creates
some separation between me and them
because I gave them a compliment. I'm
going to go do that again tomorrow.
All the while that person is wanting my
approval, but when then they get it,
they reject it. They make me feel bad.
And so that's what makes this so
interesting is that the thing that we
want most, we want the approval, we want
the gratitude, we want the appreciation,
but then when we get it, we're often
rejecting it. And so people don't give
it to us. And so the question is what
makes that the case?
We define ourselves as much by what we
don't do, what we aren't as what we are.
So if somebody's like, "No, no, I'm an
expert. I understand. You don't know
what you're talking about because I'm an
expert." We call that ego because that
is some sort of self- definitionf.
[music] But the other way to think about
it is no, no, no, I could never know
that. I'm not good enough. I I'm not
good at those things. That's also ego.
That's also saying I'm defined myself as
this way. We like to have an idea that
we're something from [music] today to
tomorrow to the next day. We like this
idea that there's something solid that
we get to hold on to and that people
like or dislike or people want or don't
want around. But the truth is that we're
different all the time. I'm one way with
you. I'm a different way with this
person. I'm a different way with my
wife. I'm a different way with my kids.
that can't particularly be helped. We
are different people as we age, as our
hormones change, as thoughts come and
go, we're different. But we like to
think that we're solid. And if somebody
challenges that, we get a little we get
a little testy. Somebody says, "You
don't know what you're talking about."
"Oh, wait, hold on." Or, "No, you're
really, really good at that thing that
you think you're bad at." "Oh, no, I'm
not." Notice they're both resisted.
We're resisting the way that we think
about ourselves
almost immediately and yet we're still
seeking that approval. But what that
approval really means is that we're
going to be asked to be a little bigger
than we are currently. If all of a
sudden I can't believe that I'm crappy
at math,
well that means I might be good at it.
Means that maybe if I tried I would
really understand and learn math. Now
maybe I have to learn math.
I don't want to learn math. I'm bad at
math.
Right? Or, oh, wow, you're a really
caring husband. No, no. You know, I'm
I'm an average husband. [music]
That might be a responsibility. That
might be something that I have to take
on that I don't particularly want to
take on.
One of the reasons that we do not like
the challenge to our ego or our
self-defin is that it might make us look
at what we actually are. Right?
And if you think about what you are, it
must be the thing that you've always
been. It must be the thing that
you were when you were 2 years old, when
you were 6 months old, that you are
today, and that you've always been. No
matter what anybody said to you, no
matter what anybody did, no matter what
trauma happened to you, there's been
something that's always been there
that's got to be you. So, it can't be an
emotion. It can't be something that's
come and gone, sadness. It can't be a
role. mother, nurse, CEO, those all come
and go. That can't be you. You weren't a
CEO when you were five or when you were
eight.
And then you can say, well, it must be a
caricature like ambition, but ambition
went away. Like, I'm an extremely
ambitious person, but I haven't been my
entire life. You might be an extremely
sad person, but there's been a moment
where you haven't been sad.
And so we have to start really looking
at what we are essentially if we look
past that ego. And that's scary. That
often feels like a deep abyss for people
to really look at. Oh wait, wait a
second. What I am is something that my
mind can't describe. What I am is
something that I don't have to defend
because it's always there. It's never
been changed. It's never been hurt.
And that is a scary feeling for a lot of
people, at least when they first see it.
It's like an abyss opening up. And so
that's a lot of what's happening in the
compliments is that if you really let
the compliment in, if you really feel
that appreciation,
you get in touch with that big spacious
emptiness that's there. You get in touch
with the thing that can't be touched. No
matter how much you try to annihilate it
or how much you compliment it, that part
that never changes is still there
and it's still undescribable
and it's just hanging out and there's
nothing you can do about it. It's just
there.
So all of it just shows us that we're
not receiving the appreciation and the
compliments because it is not our view
of our self and [music] it expands our
view of our self which is scary. And so
at once we really want the appreciation,
we really want the compliments, but
we're also rejecting it because what we
really want most deeply is approval from
ourselves. And it really doesn't matter
how many people are going to approve of
you if you don't approve of yourself. A
thousand people can call you beautiful,
but if you think you're ugly, you're
going to call them all a liar. And
you're never going to let it in. You're
never going to get to actually see your
own beauty.
And so underneath all of this deep
wanting for appreciation is the deep
wanting for your own appreciation, for
seeing yourself as you truly are to see
what is beautiful about you, what is
intelligent about you. That's the deep
want. And when somebody else gives it to
us on some level, there's this reminder.
And that reminder kicks in and goes,
"That's not how you feel about yourself.
No, you can't accept that. That's not
what you think. That's not your
self-concept. No, I no low self-esteem.
And it's why giving people compliments
often doesn't actually increase their
self-esteem.
Them doing things that allow them to see
their own competence often increases
self-esteem. Is the most likely thing to
increase self-esteem, not somebody else
telling them, "Good job. I really see
that." But if you really use the
compliment, if you really allow it in,
if you allow yourself to see yourself
through somebody else's eyes, all of a
sudden you can see yourself differently.
And that can really start allowing you
to give yourself the appreciation that
you're looking for.